Staff Meeting Minutes, 2014-01-29
=================================

Those present:

 * nfreader
 * prophile
 * mud212
 * mrxak

1. Spawn Area Abuse
-------------------

**Issue** (*prophile*): That within the spawn area players are immune from damage and that this has scope for abuse -- by baiting in mobs or going in whilst on fire.

The original justification for the spawn immunity was to avoid players dying immediately after arriving due to mobs.

**Resolution**: That the staff will remove the spawn immunity, and ensure via various means that mobs do not enter the spawn area.

2. Moderator Chat Colour
------------------------

**Issue** (*prophile*): That the chat colour for moderators (dark blue) is too dark and can be difficult to read in certain circumstances.

mrxak and prophile compared various other colours and agreed that dark green was the best option.

**Resolution**: That the staff switch the moderator chat colour to dark green.

3. Access to `/spawn`
---------------------

**Issue** (*prophile*): That players have no access to the `/spawn` command.

There is a principle on the server that the gameplay should be kept as close as possible to that of vanilla Minecraft; however, access to `/spawn` encourages trading and community around Spawntown and is considered beneficial.

**Resolution**: That the staff open access to `/spawn` to all players.

4. Reintroducing Old Players
----------------------------

**Issue** (*prophile*): That many players from the Generation 2 map have left, and some may be interested in rejoining the server.

The server needs *a* community, not necessarily the community it had; and having a playerbase at all will mean people join due to word of mouth.

There was concern about stepping on toes of another Minecraft server on the Ambrosia forums; however, that Minecraft server was heavily modded and seems to be (in part) inactive.

**Resolution**: That nfreader make a post on the Ambrosia forums letting people know the server is open for business.

5. The 1.8 Upgrade Path
-----------------------

### 5a. Bukkit and Spigot

**Issue** (*prophile*): That Bukkit may take some time to have a release considered stable for Minecraft 1.8.

There is a possibility of using unstable releases beforehand.

**Resolution**: That no upgrade is made until the release is stable.

### 5b. Minecraft changes

**Issue** (*prophile*): That changes to the game itself may require changes to the server.

There does not at this time appear to be any significant overhaul in terrain generation or new blocks that cannot be crafted from old blocks.

**Resolution**: Deferred until Minecraft 1.8 is released.

6. Other Business: Top-down Map Render
--------------------------------------

**Issue** (*mrxak*): To enquire as to the state of the top-down map rendering.

nfreader is working on getting c10t compiled on Mac OS X and will further attempt to compile it on his personal Digital Ocean VM.

It was generally agreed that there was no particular rush.

**Resolution**: No action required.

